begin quote now even as a person who
knows very little about modern farming
I know crops can strip the soil of
nutrients and in fact the problem is
about a hundred times more complicated
than that
balancing nutrients with organic work
with organic or synthetic fertilizers
and resulting pollution soil erosion etc
which I learned by doing only the most
rudimentary research so I wrote a
message to the tumblr mentioning a few
of these things stuff that seemed like
it should be particularly interesting to
vegans as it was to me given the
complications that present to our hope
of a vegan world and how I found this
information in less than 5 minutes of
basic googling this is the part that
perhaps came off as a little surety
anyway when the owner of the tumblr
replied they basically said well I'm not
going to do five minutes of research for
every question I get asked for which ok
the [ __ ] part is fair enough this is
the attitude at online vegan activism
quote quote unquote activism that I
seriously cannot relate to at all
wouldn't you want to learn more about
this when someone cuts your attention
particularly before you speak on
something you have so much of this
didn't piqued your curiosity at all as a
vegan I think activism implies a certain
responsibility to be aware of and
educate yourself on the issues you are
acting on particularly when you've got
an audience so many of these lifestyle
blogs are channels claim to want a more
vegan world but ignore or even openly
dismiss the practical concerns or
strategy of making that happen beyond
just making veganism look cool on
Instagram so close quote at the end of
Alexa's message or that's that's the end
of my reading it so many vegans as Alexa
complains just have no way to cope with
the reality of Agriculture including
plant agriculture and you find this in
the hysteria over palm oil and you know
palm oil is a crop okay let's get real
vegans like to eat mangoes do you think
that a mango plantation
is less Jenna Seidel to the wild animals
that live there than a palm oil
plantation no I mean palm oil ok it
happens to be orangutangs are the among
the animals who are being destroyed by
palm oil plantations well you know you
can literally replace the palm oil with
mango you'd have mango plantations in
the same climate in this basically the
same soil conditions I don't know if
they'd be perfect butts all right and
you're still killing the orangutans you
know but vegans look at this and they're
so unprepared to deal with these issues
that they think the problem is palm oil
and they have to ban palm oil or even
say that palm oil is not vegan now some
of the most respected vegan activists
some of the most respected vegan
youtubers people on YouTube who are
considered highly intelligent have said
this and it's shockingly stupid you know
why would you blame palm oil rather than
any other crop and again
with this specific example of jumbo palm
oil in Malaysia
you know we grow palm oil and Thailand
also stick with Thailand because I've
lived in Thailand so much if I buy the
property that's currently growing palm
oil and I change to another crop it
doesn't help any of the animals even if
we're talking about the original forests
being purchased ok so you have intact
old-growth forests and there are some
monkeys living there maybe there are
some wild elephants living there but
there may be orangutans whatever species
you're you're interested in okay you
have a patch or well forest it doesn't
matter if I cut it down to grow palm oil
or if I cut it down to grow mangoes many
vegans by the way have been horrified by
visiting durian farms durian farming
involves killing animals and sometimes
people you may not believe me on that
but I've been to durian farms durian you
know is uh it's it's a fancy crop as
works like to say every durian farm
has a mean old man with a shotgun or a
rifle or or a machine gun sitting there
watching at all times and
he will be having to shoot feral pigs
that come to steal the durians pigs can
smell their ends just as well as humans
can he may have to shoot monkeys they
come to see the steel the durians again
monkeys want to climb up the tree and
and eat the crops and above all else
he's there to shoot people in a country
like Laos there was one durian farm by
the side of the side of the road so
people could access it you know wasn't
isolated in the mountains or something
and they always had to have an armed
guard because durians are worth money if
one guy rolls up in a truck with a
machete and you know hacks now and a
bunch of durians and drives away that's
a huge loss of the farmer so he guards
and they all get shot and this is durian
farming this is the celebrated luxury
fruit at many vegans ironically by the
way I've never understood this high carb
low fat vegans all advertised durian
durian is a high-fat food it's one of
the few fruits that is astoundingly high
in fat you can really gain weight eating
durian but anyway look you know that's
farming farming is created and sustained
by acts of violence I've said that in
the YouTube channel before you are
constantly engaged in low-level violence
to prevent the land from returning to
the state of being a forest or a jungle
or whatever it naturally would be if you
weren't farming those crops there it
takes violence to create the farm in the
first place and you will indeed have
violence against other animals and to
some extent against other human beings
in the way I've described so what is the
solution the solution is not to think of
veganism as being I rescue my dog I
rescue my cat now I want to rescue the
cows and then to have an incoherent air
SATs approach to trying to ban and cope
with banning you know particular crops
like you know palm while
it just makes no sense what you have to
recognize is look for animals not for
human use we need to have a line on the
map and say inside this little square
the human beings have drawn on the map
that land exists for the trees for the
monkeys for the elephants for the wild
dogs for the Wildcats this is in effect
not our land it's not for us you can let
some scientists go in with a video
camera once in a while or whatever but
the point is this is not a jungle being
created for tourism it's not being
created for sports it's not being
created for kayaking that you have
habitat conservation that exists for the
reason of habitat conservation period
that is its whole purpose that's the
only thing that will help those
orangutans
doesn't you stop eating palm oil so what
what do you seriously how could anyone
be so stupid as to imagine that if they
use a different type of cooking oil
instead of palm oil that will save the
lives of orangutans absolutely the only
thing you can do to save those
orangutans so okay there are two things
one you can have zoo programs you know
you can have captive breeding programs
just to try to stop them from going
extinct obviously I've mentioned that in
my channel before and a couple of vegans
have attacked me obviously when the
alternative is extinction we have to
have you know zoo like captive breeding
programs because sometimes the only
alternative is to kill the animals or
let them die which is even worse so of
course there's a vegan I'm a critic of
zoos and I'm a critic of all these
things you talk to anyone who's done
real charity work related to endangered
species they criticize zoos but they
also rely on them they you know it's
that it's that or extinction from any
species so yeah zoos are morally murky
lot of grey areas but sure got to work
with them that's that's thing one and in
the short term you can take an orangutan
and put them in a put them in a captive
breeding program try to stop them from
going extinct but thing two is habitat
conservation that's it
that's the only solution is to have land
that is absolutely reserved for
non-human use where the trees are not
being grown to be turned into paper not
now not ever that it's not lumber it
doesn't exist to make furniture the
trees exist just to be trees
where the animals don't exist to
entertain us they're not there to be
pretty for us the orangutans are not
there to put on a show where you have
some land reserved so that those animals
can exist now ultimately this is again
you guys already know I'm not an
anarchist the only way you can achieve
this is through cooperation with
governments in the modern world in
reality in very very few cases habitat
conservation comes about because of a
multi-millionaire you know somebody like
Bill Gates someone with millions and
millions of dollars can directly do the
work that governments do you know by a
huge area of land and really operate it
in a habitat conservation way that is
possible but for most countries around
the world what we absolutely need are
governments and international agreements
to put pressure on governments to have
real habitat conservation I think the
the fundamental stupidity that's being
addressed here by Alexa is is really the
the paucity of this habitat conservation
approach in veganism today and a made of
videos in the past starting with that it
hasn't always been this way things have
changed a lot since the year 2000 people
just forgotten about this and you know
what I don't know why because many of
the things we face in veganism are
hopeless you know there are many of
these problems when you look at them and
you think god this is never gonna change
or it's never gonna change in my
lifetime or I'm I'm never gonna see the
outcomes of this but habitat
conservation is quick it is quick and
dirty you can really rapidly draw some
lines on a map and then the government
or a charity employs some men with guns
to patrol that area you know to make
sure there isn't illegal logging to make
sure there isn't illegal poaching that
stuff is easier than ever now because of
video cameras you know digital video
cameras you set up a bunch of hidden
cameras in the forest you're trying to
preserve makes it much much easier to
enforce those regulations and to put
people in prison when they come in
illegally chop down lumber or illegally
kill animals that is it quick overnight
fast you can have a profound impact on
the world's ecology and on the lives of
animals you can preserve you know a
place where any of these species really
have a chance to thrive and not to
thrive as an ornament to human
civilization not to be a toy sleeping on
a couch watching television in a
language it can never understand not an
animal that it's had its will broken its
testicles chopped off you know an animal
with its fangs and claws removed yeah
sickening to me but you know this to me
is the the contrast between myself and I
would say the majority of vegans in 2016
and I don't know I mean am I am I still
going to be in the minority ten years
from now 20 years from now I don't know